have you looked out your window yet I'm
telling you everywhere it seems that the
economy is slowing down of course there
are some spending like there's no
tomorrow but are they just using their
credit cards and spending to the Limit
well in this video we're going to look
at what's been happening with the
consumer we're going to break down the
economic impacts to you and your family
all here today you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you in
these videos what I like to do is
analyze the problem problem awareness
then we explain why that is the case and
then we say what can I do about it
because these things right here right
now are extremely important because we
are in an environment that is you know
it's like a tectonic shift that's going
on and of course we want to be on top of
all this I'll break it down right here
let's go you have it articles like this
every day will you'll see the US May no
longer avoid a recession that's right
you hear it why one thing on top of the
other on top of the other what's going
on over there the oil prices could go
too high the stock market may stay a
little bit elevated but oh no if it's
just one more thing it's going to break
but what's real what's actually
happening instead of just looking at
forecasts from economists who are
changing their tune every week
ridiculous you know I see this all over
YouTube as well like are you going to
just flip-flop what do you have a
pancake come on chapter 11 filings by
businesses sore 61% so far this year
more small businesses and consumers uh
also turned to bankruptcy in the first
nine months of 2023 not a good sign okay
this doesn't happen during good times
and you could see it for yourself a wide
array of us businesses have struggled
this year in the first N9 months you
could see chapter 11 bankruptcies have
stored
61% looking further small business
filings in that time Rose
41% in all considering every type of
bankruptcy filings in the commercial
sector Rose 177% all right so we could
see that of course what's going on it's
multifaceted you're going to look in one
area or you know one region is going to
be different than the other the point
all I have to say is that we are in a
time in which we had so much abundance
in 2020 here the cash we're throwing it
there PPP loans we're printing money
we're buying the the Federal Reserve
indirectly buying corporate bonds of
companies like apple it's incredible and
yet we are in this world today where
they started to increased interest rates
and everything fell apart number one the
main one being the banks the banks are
really hurting right now I can tell you
that I have looked into this in depth
and they are really front and center now
you might say I'm not shedding a tear
for JP Morgan trust me I'm not either
but what I do look at is the fact that
when I go to any downtown core I look up
and there's these real tall buildings
and all of those are the banks they're
the insurance companies they're the
financial companies so that means
they're employing a lot of people
indirectly or directly because those all
those floors that's got 50 floors it
those are all people there might be 100
200 people in a given floor each one of
those floors multiply that up they've
got to take some form of Transit they've
got to eat somewhere they've got to do
things after work or during work
entertainment and just you know whatever
spending money so you suddenly you put
those guys out of business or you heard
them they start laying off people they
start getting off the real estate
they're doing things that we haven't
seen since 2008 that's happening right
now we got elements of that in 2020 that
was they you know they were covered up
and that was done with the moratoriums
that was done with the PPP loans but not
without inflationary impact and now
we're feeling that big time on top of
that we do have events that are actually
deflationary like for instance with the
student loans having to pay back right
here at this time people are feeling oh
oh I got to pay that $400 a month okay
now I can't do this now I can't do that
that's deflation the problem with this
is that they like to highlight this
inflation disinflation means you know
less inflation prices haven't gone down
look around you all the services all of
the things that you consume One Way shap
form they're all going up all the
streaming services they're charging
people more money than ever before
everything seems to be going up but what
can you do do about that well there are
actions you could take right now today
let's look into this further though all
right switching jobs is no longer paying
off like it used to very clear okay
there was a huge discrepancy um you know
job changer job stayer you could see it
and um a lot of that uh is really
changing many people said you know what
don't work hard at your company just
keep moving moving moving well that
doesn't look very attractive to an
employer saying I noticed that you never
stay at a place longer within 6 months
well you know I was getting paid more
what do you think that employer is going
to do um not really interested if you're
going to you know I got to spend all
that money on training you we got to you
know you get in here and six months
later you're
gone it's not good from an employer
perspective to see that
your you know that potential hire has
gone and all through all these companies
sure you you can stay a year or two or
whatever that's different but too many
people are flipping too often it's not
not working as much as it did before the
great resignation is winding down
monthly number of people quitting their
jobs in the US seasonally adjusted which
is never accurate but here we go and you
can see that has certainly changed from
its peak that we experienced right after
the the whole Insanity of 2020 how
Americans responded to the inflation
crisis share of respondents who adjusted
their behavior in the following ways due
to inflation number one the number one
thing on here I spend less on
nonessentials number two I pay more
attention to the bargains and Deals Big
Stuff big stuff and vehicle as well a
lot of people starting 2020 they had two
vehicles in the household they basically
said okay right now I got to get rid of
one we're both at home we're both
working from home might as well get rid
of the second vehicle and that's what
they did were able to reduce their costs
if you look at spending on
non-essentials the restaurants I told
you about the anecdotal evidence
speaking to people on the inside saying
we're at like half capacity that we were
before those are a couple examples of
course but overwhelmingly we do see that
data showing up not just anecdotally but
it is actually in the data itself at the
same time uh Bargains and Deals if you
want to get deals one of those places
you can do that is through the app or
website called flip f l p p flip is a
way it's free it searches all the flyers
in your area and you could actually type
into that search if you wanted U you
know bananas for instance I love my
bananas you could go and type in banana
and you could see where the best price
of bananas is for you check it out okay
not sponsored but I I do look at it
occasionally consumers starting to
buckle for the first time in a decade
former Walmart US CEO warns of course
this is just one now that's Walmart
Walmart talking about that um but
I've I have told you look at uh the
dollar stores as well even they have
said they're hurting that's a big
concern um and you could see it
overwhelmingly the customer consumers
they they're feeling it it's getting too
expensive to Have Fun prices for concert
tickets and amusement park entries have
balloon and I think I just brought to
you recently wasn't it uh Disneyland or
Disney World whichever uh always get
them
confused um when you have to spend
$104 I think the number was just to get
in Imagine okay and you're not going
there solo okay it's probably a family
of let's say four So a family four
that's over $400 you're just in the door
now you're going to spend on food now
you're going to spend on entertainment
now you're going to spend on gifts and
this and that you know you can't get out
of that Park without spending
$1,000 now that's absurd that's wild but
that's happening right now the same with
those concerts I've heard
examples um of of literally hundreds of
dollars for any seat just because the
hype such massive hype for these groups
and it's
unbelievable right things have things
have really changed in the last few
years you wouldn't have been able to get
away with that for a lot of the these
groups but now it's normal supposedly at
least I guess that's the new normal one
in three Britain's to cut Christmas
spending that's according to PWC we're
we're seeing this everywhere I just want
to show you it's in Canada it's in the
UK it's in the US all over Ikea returns
to cutting Furniture prices as inflation
pressure uh eases this is going on um of
course they're going to do this to make
sure that they keep their customers
coming through but look at what Tesla
did they cut their prices multiple times
in order to hit their targets WTO the
World Trade Organization lowers 2023
trade forecast amid Global manufacturing
slowdown they're seeing the writing on
the wall they know what's going on it's
happening uh very clearly with the data
we've pulled from China the US
government interest bill is skyrocketing
overall the whole this whole thing that
we just talked about I just gave you
evidence after evidence looking at all
this
what do we see it's that you bring
interest rates up you break stuff I mean
I can't say it any other way but that's
what's going on right here and I've
brought you so many pieces of data from
all over the world looking at it from
all different angles and yet who does
this affect it impacts you it absolutely
does one way shape or form and so at the
same time it's affecting your government
because their in the interest on the the
national debt will soon be
$1.15
trillion 1.15 trillion dollar just to
pay the interest in that given Year and
that means they pay the interest on that
before they pay your roads before they
give that to the people in need the
people on the streets the people who
absolutely desire this at a time in
which they're struggling more than ever
they're paying the interest on that debt
they rack up the debt they got to pay
the interest people don't realize
that they think that when they are
getting something oh let's let's spend
money on this they don't realize they
got to pay not only for that they got to
pay the interest on that and every time
they do so it's going to nonproductive
means it can't help anybody out how does
that sound not too good okay that's the
way I see it and I left one for you at
the end end
here because those who stay to the end
get the best stuff that's how I that's
how I I purposely schedule my videos in
this way job changes not seasonally
adjusted when you seasonally adjust the
data it is 99 times out of 100 it makes
it look better than it is that's why
they do it but when we do non-seasonally
adjusted like just the actual numbers I
don't understand these seasonal
adjustments they say that there's an
excuse for you read it and you just
think to yourself that doesn't that's
not that's not good I just want to know
the number I just want to know the truth
I guess that's why you're here well
September 2023 look at this number one
you want to know where the jobs went
yeah part-
timr what about the multiple job holders
yes that's right and what about
full-timers oh sorry you got fired you
see that full-timers are gone
part-timers are in and multiple job
holders more now than ever before a
record high multiple job holders does
that tell you that we are in a strong
economy right now that everybody's got
to get a side hustle just to be able to
have the same life that they did three
years ago is that a good sign of course
not and it's pathetic when I see it out
there that people are telling you that
everything is totally fine everything is
a okay and yet it is not and we see that
we know the truth because we're here and
I know that you are one of those who
simply wants to know what's going on
okay if you want the real deal you've
got to get that Financial education and
I bring it to you for free right here it
is available to you at the money gps.com
the money gps.com is the place to be
totally free you click on that first
button that's called compass and you get
the financial education video after
video after video of these super short
videos and it makes it so easy we have
approximately I think it was um
individual visits anyway was over a
thousand now inside of um the money
gps.com and compass and I want to see
you there let me know you know you can
always contact me and let me know what
you thought of compass I'm telling you
it's Financial education you're not
going to get in the education system and
yet I I brought it to you for free so
check it out the money GPS
comment of the day I love your comments
Manuel look at this he said the scenario
is very scary the US must meet its
financial obligations and currently it's
sitting between a rock and a hard place
on one hand the usual buyers are not
stepping up AKA China and the Federal
Reserve bricks nations are selling their
us treasuries some drastic measures have
to save the day thank you for another
great video yeah and that's going on
right here and now this is the problem
there's too much debt there's too much
interest on that debt and yet you don't
have the buyers you did before big
problems okay and so you the individual
you've got to do what you can right now
you need to protect yourself you need to
look around you and realize number one I
need to deal with me Alex horos calls it
the SN me not the S SMP because we're
going to invest in ourselves and that
means having our prep preparedness as
part of the pillars of prosperity okay
we want our preparedness to be in check
at the same time we got to start
learning the
information um that you know that's out
there in the case of compass that's one
thing but just being aware of
opportunities that are out there and we
also need to get working and that means
yes hopefully in some sort of passive
environment where we're putting our
efforts in and then we get even if it's
a trickle getting a little bit in and
then the next month after hope it's a
little bit more it's a little bit more
even when it's a trickle it's going to
be good because you can keep piling on I
hope the best for you I wish you well
and I'll see you tomorrow take care